../cards/curious
../cards/abdulhazrat
../cards/keziahmason
../cards/neanderthal
../cards/marriage
../cards/mercy
../cards/blackman
../cards/innsmouth
../cards/eldersign
../cards/outsider



"Adjustment X. Move highest-point card stack to side with fewest
arcane points.  Play in its place." Pick up Adjustment before counting
points on each side.

"Fortune XI. Play on your side.  Each player moves a card stack
counter-clockwise."  Fortune may move, because it plays before
the stacks move.

"Fortitude 2·XII.  Double the point sum of this card stack."
Sum the values of all the cards in the stack, then multiply.
Fortitude adds at least 20 arcane points to the card stack it joins.

"Traitor -XIII.  Negate the point sum of this card stack."
Multiply the point sum of the card stack by -1.  Its negative arcane
points subtract from the sum of arcane points on its share or side.

"Temperance XIIII.  Play on a side.  Move a card stack from that side
to each of its shares."  Share only as many card stacks as there are
other players.  Temperance may share, because it plays before
stacks move.

"Death XV.  Remove a card from play.  Play in its place."
This card affects Tower and Universe, and other cards in their stacks.
Death removes the card entirely from play, so its effects and points
no longer affect the game.

"Devil XVI.  Move a card stack to each other side from a side.
Play on that side." Move only as many card stacks as there are
other players.  Devil does not move, because it does not play
until after stacks move.

"Truth XVII.  Immediately play under a just-played card.
Each other player counter-clockwise replays that card."
A replayed card added to a stack with Tower stops replaying.
A player may play Truth to replay other cards, and then use
other cards to replay Truth, et cetera, only so long as it makes
a difference in the card layout.

"Tower XVIII.  This card stack does not move, replay, or share."
Tower and other cards in its stack may not be moved, passed,
picked up, replaced, replayed, shared, et cetera, from a stack
containing Tower.  All such cards may die, or have their effects
cancelled by Intuition as they are added to a stack containing Tower.

"Moon XVIIII.  Shuffle and deal a share’s cards to players’ hands.
Play on that share." Pick up all cards on the share.  Play Moon after
you deal all the other cards, so do not shuffle or deal Moon.

"Star +XX.  EACH TURN add one point per card to this share or side.
Groups of 5 points are arcane." Points added to a share or side remain
with the share or side when cards move away.

"Sun XXI.  Shuffle and deal a side’s cards to players’ hands.
Play on that side." Pick up all cards on the side.  Play Sun after you
distribute all the other cards.  A player may play Sun to replay other
cards, and then use other cards to replay Sun, et cetera, only so long
as it makes a difference in the card layout.

"Judgement XXII.  Play to a share.  The share’s players switch hand
and position."  The simplest way to do this is to have the two players
put face down their hand of cards on each side, then get up and
sit in each other’s seats.  Play continues counter-clockwise from the
hand that held Judgement, so the player who played Judgement might
play again, in a different position and with a different hand.  If more
than two players own the share, the player of Judgement chooses
which two players switch.

"Universe XXIII.  Replay all cards from a side.  Play this card on
that side.  It does not move, replay, or share." Play Universe after
you replay all the other cards, so none of the replayed cards are
played on Universe.  While the cards are replayed, the Universe card
is effectively hidden.  Other cards may be moved or replayed from a
stack containing Universe.  In general, do not move, replace, replay,
or share Universe.  Any other cards in Universe’s stack may be
affected by a card, which would separate Universe from a card in his
stack, or the remainder of his stack.
