Each release in the series could be another themed set of tarot.
With the same back, users can mix and match one card of each
point value from one of the sets, 24 cards total representing all
point values.

In this approach each release is a self-contained game, which requires
new and interesting card effects for each card.  (Keep notes on early
variations for further development.)

Card effects in expansion sets can explore different aspects of the
archetype at each point value; develop antitheses in tarot imagery;
implement mechanisms from processes in themes, items, and
characters; break rules established in earlier sets; and expand types
of gameplay.

Expansion card examples.  The actual card name is the same, to
reinforce the point that only one card at each point value is used to
construct a deck for play.  It might be interesting to play only one
card from a balanced pair, to prevent a card from having a counter.

each turn Fugitive 0/XXIIII moves to the side with the most arcane
points.

I

Famine II removes one point each turn from each side and share.

War III visits each side and share counter-clockwise and isolates a
card from a stack.

Exchange IIII cards in hand with another player.

V

Pestilence VI adds one point each turn to each side and share.

Death VII visits each side and share counter-clockwise and kills a
card.

VIII

VIIII

Justice X temporarily becomes another copy of the card it plays on.

Wheel XI shuffles and deals all cards in hands.

Turpitude XII triples point sum of this card stack.

Thief XIII plays on your side immediately after a card plays to take
that card into your hand.

Intemperance XIIII plays now all remaining cards in player’s hand.

Scythe XV kills a card stack.

End XVI the game when this card plays.

Lie XVII cancels another card as it plays.

Lightning XVIII cancels Tower effect while on same side.

Luna XVIIII collects one point per turn from each other share and side
to this one.

Algol XX adds one point each turn for each V or X on this share or
side.

Sol XXI distributes one point per turn from this share or side to each
other.

Resurrect XXII resurrects a(ll) dead cards, plays on player’s side.

World XXIII replays one card from each side, plays on player’s side.
