Sharot: A nightmare in the library.

Play vaguely Lovecraftian tarot cards that manipulate cards affecting
you and another, or only you, to reduce the influence of cosmic horrors
and possibly save your sanity.

Number of players.  2–4 players with a shared area between players
(playtested).  6 players with one shared area (not yet playtested).
A single player with sufficiently many and independent personalities
may play against himself.

Play area.  In addition to a side for each player, the playing area
for 2–4 players consists of a shared area between each player.
This approach makes the playing area complicated for 6 people.
In addition, smaller tables don’t well support a large number of shares.
In these cases, play with one shared area between all players.

Alternative play area.  Instead of shares and sides around players,
another way to arrange the cards is all in a row of card stacks,
with markers to indicate which players count the cards in the stack.
To score, divide the number of arcane points in each stack by the
number of players who count it.  Each marker and combination of two
should be represented, to record points on sides and shares.

Setup.  Shuffle and deal half the deck evenly to 2, 3, 4,
or 6 players.  The remainder comprises a draw pile.

Deal 6 to each of 2 players, leaving 12 for draw pile.
Deal 4 to each of 3 players, leaving 12 for draw pile.
Deal 3 to each of 4 players, leaving 12 for draw pile.
Deal 2 to each of 6 players, leaving 12 for draw pile.

Play and draw.  Each turn, a player plays 1 card from hand and draws 1,
while there are cards in the draw pile.  Once the draw pile is exhausted,
each turn a player plays 1 card from hand.  Play continues through
players with cards in hand, until no player has any cards in hand to play.
Play proceeds clockwise.


For example, with no card effects on hands, deal (2 2 2 2 2 2) cards
to 6 players, and keep the remainder in a draw pile.

Round 1
	(2 2 2 2 2 2) in hands, (12) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 2
	(2 2 2 2 2 2) in hands, (6) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 3
	(2 2 2 2 2 2) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand

Round 4
	(1 1 1 1 1 1) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand


For example, with no card effects on hands, deal (6 6) cards
to 2 players, and keep the remainder in a draw pile.

Round 1
	deal out half of all cards, other half in draw pile
	(6 6) in hands, (12) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 2
	(6 6) in hands, (10) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 3
	(6 6) in hands, (8) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 4
	(6 6) in hands, (6) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 5
	(6 6) in hands, (4) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 6
	(6 6) in hands, (2) in deck
	each player plays 1 card from hand, and draws 1

Round 7
	(6 6) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand

Round 8
	(5 5) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand

Round 9
	(4 4) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand

Round 10
	(3 3) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand

Round 11
	(2 2) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand

Round 12
	(1 1) in hands
	each player plays 1 card from hand
	game over: no cards in hands


Start play.  The player with Hermit plays it to any share or side
she wants.  The player to the right of that player moves the Hermit
anywhere he wants (since all shares and sides still have the fewest
number of arcane points, 0), and then plays a card from his hand.
Each turn.  “Each turn” effects happen at the beginning of the turn,
in order by increasing card number.

Tactics.  Play cards to (as of the end of the game) minimize arcane
points on your side and minimize arcane points shared with each
other player.

Play effects.  Cards may play anywhere unless limited by their
effects, and specifically may join a stack with effects which limit
move, replay, or share.  Play as many effects as you can; a card may
play with no effect.  Follow the order of effects on cards, it usually
makes a difference.

Stacks.  Cards which affect only one card may attempt to affect a
single card in a stack, and be prevented by effects which limit move,
replay, or share.  If a card plays in place of another, and that card
cannot move, the playing card joins its card stack.

Arcane points.  Each V and X on cards, and each group of 5 points directly
on a share or side, comprise arcane knowledge, which leads to madness.
The fewer arcane points you have, the more sane you are.

Scoring sides and shares.  All arcane points on a player’s side count
towards that player’s score.  Half the arcane points in areas shared
with one other player count towards a player’s score.  When you need
to divide an odd number of points by 2, round down.

Scoring a common share.  For one common area, in games of 6 players,
the number of arcane points in the share which count towards each
player is the total arcane points divided by the number of players.
(This should be the most complicated calculation in the game).

Scoring dice.  To keep up with the number of points on a share or
side, you can use Sharot dice, with sides I, II, III, IIII, V and X.
Twist I sideways as a negative sign.  Or, use ordinary dice, counting
the 6 as 10.

Winner.  The goal is to score the least points at the end of the game.
If your score is less than zero, you actually retain a functioning mind—
congratulations, you’ll notice when it’s eaten by your alien overlords!


Master	I

[An opened grave.]

Put a card from your hand face down under this card.  It flips and
enters play when uncovered.

The face-down card is considered out of play until Magus is no longer
covering the card.  At that point turn it face up, and it enters play
as if played on that share or side.  Immediate effects and just-played
effects may be used as it enters and finishes play.


Priestess	II

[Woodblock style.  Keziah Mason: Obviously completely insane hag,
wearing plain homespun clothes of Salem at the time of the witch trials.
In a goal smearing an undefined red substance on the walls, not blood.
The geometry of the corner of the cell is wrong, somehow.]

Move one card from one side to another.  Play in its place.


Emperor	III

[Daguerreotype style.  Neanderthal look: As subtle as possible,
while being undeniable that the face is wrong.]

Play on a side.  Share one card from that side.

Move a card from a side into one of the side’s shares.
Emperor may share, because it plays before a card moves.


Lovers	IIII

[Daguerreotype style.  Dirty-clawed hairy hand tenderly holding webbed
slimy hand.]

Play on a share to affect two sides.  Add to each side the number of
points on cards on the other side.


Mercy	V

[Cartoon style.  Student with hands over ears, closed eyes and mouth.]

As a card plays, play on that player’s side.  Cancel its effects,
not its points—which play freely.

Mercy cancels all the effects of any card as it plays.
This includes the effects of cards which change point sums,
so such cards are worth just their face point value.  This nullifies
restrictions on how the card may play, move, replay, or share.
To note that the card is only points, turn it upside down.


Priest	VI

[Woodblock style.  The Black Man: Caucasian, blackened skin, heavy
rough black monk’s robe.]

Play on a share.  Move one card to another share.

Priest may share, because he plays before a card moves.


Empress	VII

[Daguerreotype style.  Innsmouth look: As subtle as possible,
while being undeniable that the face is wrong.]

Play on a share.  Move one card from that share to its side.

A card moves from a share to one of the sides it separates.


Chariot	VIII

[Photographic.  Elder sign from badger hoodie.  Worn, tarnished,
ancient metal badge style, on a worn leather background.]

Play in any share.  Move a card stack from one of its sides to the other.

Play the Chariot to the share between the source and destination sides.


Hermit	VIIII

[Outsider: I have a photo of a child's green tattered zombie costume
lurching toward the camera.]

In hand: your turn is next.  EACH TURN move this card
to share or side with fewest arcane points.

The player dealt Hermit plays it as the first play of the game.
At the beginning of each turn, pick up Hermit before counting points
on each side.  The card alone moves to the share or side with fewest
arcane points.  If more than one share or side has identically fewest
arcane points, then the current player decides where to move the card.


Justice	X

[Cartoon style.  Three students force open books at the fourth.]

Move highest-point card stack to side with fewest arcane points.
Play in its place.

Pick up Justice before counting points on each side.
If the highest-point card stack may not move, Justice joins it.


Fortune	XI

[Photograph.  Aztec calendar stone.]

Play on your side.  Each player moves a card stack counter-clockwise.

Fortune may move, because it plays before stacks move.


Fortitude	XII ·2

[Cartoon style.  A manic student reaching from a pile of books
for another.]

Double the point sum of this card stack.

Sum the values of all the cards in the stack, then multiply.
Fortitude adds at least 24 arcane points to the card stack it joins.


Traitor	XIII -

[Cartoon style.  Student climbing out a high library window.]

Negate the point sum of this card stack.

Multiply the point sum of the card stack by -1.  Its negative arcane
points subtract from the sum of arcane points on its share or side.


Temperance	XIIII

[The king in yellow: Seven layers of tattered bright yellow rags
falling in disarray from a thin, hunched figure wearing a silken,
smooth and featureless, pallid mask.  Photographic: A doll wearing
treated fabric, against the background of a fluted granite column
(just an idea, not especially convinced of it).]

Play on a side.  Move a card stack from that side to each of
its shares.

Share only as many card stacks as there are other players.
Temperance may share, because it plays before stacks move.


Death	XV

[Watercolor style: The drowned giant of J.G. Ballard, in the style of
the hollow giant in Bosch’s triptych “The Garden of Earthly Delights”.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bosch_Jardin_des_delices_detail.jpg]

Remove a card from play.  Also reduce points on side or share by
card’s points.  Play in its place.

This card affects Tower and Universe, and other cards in their stacks.
Death removes the card entirely from play, so its effects and points
no longer affect the game.  In addition, subtract the point value of
the card from the number of points on its share or side.


Devil	XVI

[Watercolor style.  Cthulhu: huge, lidless, expressionless deep-squid
eye; tentacled and wormy mouthparts; tattered leathery bat wings.]

Move a card stack to each other side from a side.  Play on that side.

Move only as many card stacks as there are other players.  Devil does
not move, because it does not play until after stacks move.


Severity	XVII

[An expedition arrives at the broken remains of another.]

Immediately play under a just-played card.  Each other player
counter-clockwise replays that card.

Tower does not replay.  A replayed card added to a stack with Tower
stops replaying.  A player may play Severity to replay other cards,
and then use other cards to replay Severity, et cetera, only so long
as the overall game position does not repeat.


Tower	XVIII

[Sketch style.  Obelisk with unfamiliar heiroglyphs of activities and
creatures better left stylized.]

This card stack does not move, replay, or share.

Tower and other cards in its stack may not be moved, passed,
picked up, replaced, replayed, shared, et cetera, from a stack
containing Tower.  All such cards may die, or have their effects
cancelled by Intuition as they are added to a stack containing Tower.


Moon	XVIIII

[Watercolor style.  Low tide at pier.  High tide line is mossy, slimy,
grown with fungoid polyps like those described in Mountains of
Madness.]

Shuffle and deal a share’s cards to players’ hands.  Play on
that share.

Pick up all cards on the share.  Play Moon after you deal all the
other cards, so do not shuffle or deal Moon.


Star	XX +

[Sketch style on black background, like a blueprint.  Constellation at
intersections in old gods sign on badger hoodie.  Faint lines between?]

EACH TURN add one point per card to this share or side.  Groups of 5
points are arcane.

Points added to a share or side remain with the share or side when
cards move away.


Sun	XXI

[Sketch style.  Desert, high dunes, no life.]

Shuffle and deal a side’s cards to players’ hands.  Play on that side.

Pick up all cards on the side.  Play Sun after you distribute all the
other cards.  A player may play Sun to replay other cards, and then
use other cards to replay Sun, et cetera, only so long as the overall
game position does not repeat.


Judgement	XXII

[Cartoon style.  Newly-robed student gleeful, arms wide to churning storm.]

Play to a share.  The share’s players switch hand and position.

The simplest way to do this is to have the two players put face down their
hand of cards on each side, then get up and sit in each other’s seats.
Play continues counter-clockwise from the hand that held Judgement,
so the player who played Judgement might play again, in a different
position and with a different hand.  If more than two players own the share,
the player of Judgement chooses which two players switch.


World	XXIII

Woodblock style.  A Turkish ney is an Arabian end-blown flute
consisting of a piece of hollow cane or reed with five or six finger
holes and one thumb hole.  (The instrument creates a breathy,
high thin piping for Azathoth.)

Replay all cards from a side.  Play this card on that side.  It does not
move, replay, or share.

Play Universe after you replay all the other cards, so none of the
replayed cards are played on Universe.  While the cards are replayed,
the Universe card is effectively hidden.  Other cards may be moved or
replayed from a stack containing Universe.  In general, do not move,
replace, replay, or share Universe.  Any other cards in Universe’s
stack may be affected by a card, which would separate Universe from a
card in his stack, or the remainder of his stack.


Fool	XXIIII / 0·

[Cartoon style.  A student with a lantern in a dark library.]

x0 This card stack has no point sum.
XXIIII This card alone.

When played as part of a card stack, multiply the point sum of the
card stack by zero.  When played alone, on any side or share,
its point value is 24.  This means that it can’t be combined with any
other cards and keep its value of 24.


